.TH PRINTER\-REAPER 1 "2026-03-25" "3.7.0" "Printer Penetration Testing"
.SH NAME
printer\-reaper \- Advanced Printer Penetration Testing Toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B printer\-reaper
[\fItarget\fR]
[\fImode\fR]
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B printer\-reaper
is a complete, modular framework for security assessment of network printers.
It covers PJL, PostScript, PCL, and ESC/P printer languages across all common
network protocols (RAW/9100, IPP/631, LPD/515, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, FTP, SMB, Telnet).
.PP
Features include: banner grab, NVD/CVE lookup, ML-assisted fingerprinting,
39+ exploit modules, wordlist-driven credential brute-force, lateral movement
via SSRF, network mapping, storage and firmware analysis, Cross-Site Printing
payload generation, and an interactive PJL/PS/PCL shell with 109+ commands.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I target
Printer IP address or hostname.
.TP
.I mode
Printer language to use interactively: \fBpjl\fR, \fBps\fR, \fBpcl\fR, or \fBauto\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show program version and exit.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Suppress banner and warnings.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Show raw bytes sent and received.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-safe
Verify language support before connecting.
.TP
.BI "\-i " file
Execute commands from file (batch mode).
.TP
.BI "\-o " file
Log raw sent data to file.
.TP
.BI "\-\-config " PATH
Custom config.json path.
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-interactive
Launch guided interactive menu.
.SS Discovery
.TP
.B \-\-discover\-local
SNMP sweep across local networks + enumerate installed printers on this host.
.TP
.B \-\-discover\-online
Online discovery via Shodan/Censys (requires API keys in config.json).
.TP
.B \-\-osint
Passive OSINT check for target IP (Shodan/Censys lookup, no direct connection).
.TP
.B \-\-auto\-detect
Detect which printer languages are supported by the target.
.SS Reconnaissance
.TP
.B \-\-scan
Banner grab + CVE/NVD lookup + attack surface assessment. No payloads sent.
.TP
.B \-\-scan\-ml
Same as \-\-scan plus ML-assisted fingerprinting and attack scoring.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-nvd
Skip NVD API CVE lookup during \-\-scan (faster, offline).
.TP
.B \-\-xpl
Auto-match exploits after \-\-scan.
.SS Brute\-Force Login
.TP
.B \-\-bruteforce
Brute-force printer login using wordlist credentials. Tests HTTP, FTP, SNMP, Telnet.
.TP
.BI "\-\-bf\-vendor " VENDOR
Override vendor for credential selection (e.g. epson, hp, ricoh, brother).
.TP
.BI "\-\-bf\-serial " SERIAL
Device serial number. Expands \fB__SERIAL__\fR tokens in the wordlist.
.TP
.BI "\-\-bf\-mac " MAC
MAC address. Expands \fB__MAC6__\fR and \fB__MAC12__\fR tokens.
.TP
.BI "\-\-bf\-wordlist " FILE
Custom wordlist file (format: user:pass per line). REPLACES the default wordlist.
.TP
.BI "\-\-bf\-cred " USER:PASS
Add individual credential (repeatable). Tested before wordlist entries.
.TP
.B \-\-bf\-no\-variations
Disable password variation engine (leet, reverse, CamelCase).
.TP
.BI "\-\-bf\-delay " SECS
Delay in seconds between login attempts (default: 0.3).
.SS Exploit Library
.TP
.B \-\-xpl\-list
List all available exploits in the xpl/ directory.
.TP
.BI "\-\-xpl\-source " SOURCE
Filter exploit list by source: metasploit, exploit-db, research, custom.
.TP
.BI "\-\-xpl\-check " EXPLOIT_ID
Non-destructive vulnerability check for a specific exploit module.
.TP
.BI "\-\-xpl\-run " EXPLOIT_ID
Run a specific exploit (dry-run by default; add \-\-no\-dry to execute).
.TP
.B \-\-xpl\-update
Rebuild xpl/index.json from exploit modules in xpl/ directory.
.TP
.BI "\-\-xpl\-fetch " EDB_ID
Download a raw exploit from ExploitDB by ID.
.SS Attack Campaign
.TP
.B \-\-attack\-matrix
Run the full BlackHat 2017 attack matrix (dry-run by default).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-dry
Disable dry-run for \-\-attack\-matrix, \-\-xpl\-run, \-\-ipp\-submit, and \-\-firmware\-reset.
.SS Lateral Movement
.TP
.B \-\-pivot
SSRF audit via IPP/WSD, internal host discovery.
.TP
.BI "\-\-pivot\-scan " INTERNAL_HOST
Port-scan INTERNAL_HOST via printer SSRF.
.TP
.B \-\-network\-map
Full network map from the printer's perspective.
.TP
.BI "\-\-implant " KEY=VALUE
Persistent configuration implant (smtp_host, dns, snmp_community, etc).
.SS Storage & Firmware
.TP
.B \-\-storage
Storage audit: FTP, web file manager, SNMP MIB dump, saved print jobs.
.TP
.B \-\-firmware
Firmware audit: version extraction, upload endpoint, NVRAM probe.
.TP
.BI "\-\-firmware\-reset " METHOD
Attempt factory reset via: pjl, web, or ipp. DANGEROUS — authorized labs only.
.SS IPP & Send Job
.TP
.B \-\-ipp
Full IPP security audit.
.TP
.B \-\-ipp\-submit
Submit anonymous IPP print job (dry-run by default).
.TP
.BI "\-\-send\-job " FILE
Send a file to the printer. Supported formats: .ps .pcl .pdf .txt .png .jpg and raw.
.TP
.BI "\-\-send\-proto " PROTO
Protocol for send-job: raw (9100), ipp (631), lpd (515). Default: raw.
.TP
.BI "\-\-send\-copies " N
Number of copies to print (default: 1).
.TP
.BI "\-\-send\-queue " QUEUE
LPD queue name for \-\-send\-job with \-\-send\-proto lpd (default: lp).
.SS Cross-Site Printing
.TP
.BI "\-\-xsp " ATTACK_TYPE
Generate Cross-Site Printing payload. Types: info, capture, dos, nvram, exfil.
.TP
.BI "\-\-xsp\-callback " URL
Attacker callback URL for \-\-xsp exfil payloads.
.SS Payload Injection
.TP
.BI "\-\-payload " LANG:TYPE
Inject a language-specific payload: pjl:reset, pjl:offline, ps:loop, ps:info, escpr:info.
.TP
.BI "\-\-payload\-data " STRING
Custom payload string for \-\-payload LANG:custom.
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B \-\-check\-config
Show which API features are configured and exit.
.SH WORDLIST FORMAT
Wordlists use one \fIuser\fR:\fIpass\fR pair per line.
Lines starting with \fB#\fR are comments.
Vendor sections are declared with \fB# ── VendorName ──\fR headers.
.PP
Dynamic tokens expanded at runtime:
.RS
.TP
.B __SERIAL__
Replaced by the value of \-\-bf\-serial.
.TP
.B __MAC6__
Replaced by the last 6 hex characters of \-\-bf\-mac (no separators).
.TP
.B __MAC12__
Replaced by the full 12-character MAC without separators.
.RE
.PP
Default wordlist location: \fB/usr/share/printer-reaper/wordlists/printer_default_creds.txt\fR
(or \fBwordlists/printer_default_creds.txt\fR relative to the working directory).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Discover printers on the local network:
.B printer\-reaper \-\-discover\-local
.TP
Passive fingerprint + CVE scan:
.B printer\-reaper 192.168.1.100 \-\-scan
.TP
Open PJL interactive shell:
.B printer\-reaper 192.168.1.100 pjl
.TP
Brute-force Epson with serial number:
.B printer\-reaper 192.168.1.100 \-\-bruteforce \-\-bf\-vendor epson \-\-bf\-serial XAABT77481
.TP
Run full attack matrix (dry-run):
.B printer\-reaper 192.168.1.100 \-\-attack\-matrix
.TP
List all exploit modules:
.B printer\-reaper 192.168.1.100 \-\-xpl\-list
.TP
Check and run an exploit:
.B printer\-reaper 192.168.1.100 \-\-xpl\-check edb-35151
.br
.B printer\-reaper 192.168.1.100 \-\-xpl\-run edb-35151 \-\-no\-dry
.TP
Scan and immediately auto-match exploits:
.B printer\-reaper 192.168.1.100 \-\-scan \-\-xpl
.TP
Map internal network from printer's perspective:
.B printer\-reaper 192.168.1.100 \-\-network\-map
.TP
Non-interactive batch mode:
.B printer\-reaper 192.168.1.100 pjl \-i commands.txt \-o session.log \-q
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/printer-reaper/wordlists/printer_default_creds.txt
Default credential wordlist (195+ entries, vendor-sectioned).
.TP
.I /usr/share/printer-reaper/wordlists/snmp_communities.txt
SNMP community strings wordlist.
.TP
.I /usr/share/printer-reaper/wordlists/ftp_creds.txt
FTP credentials wordlist.
.TP
.I /usr/share/printer-reaper/config.json.example
Example API keys configuration file. Copy to config.json.
.TP
.I /usr/share/printer-reaper/xpl/
Exploit library directory (39+ modules).
.SH LEGAL
This tool is provided for \fBauthorized security research and penetration testing only\fR.
Using printer\-reaper against systems without explicit written authorization is illegal.
The author accepts no liability for misuse or damage caused by this software.
.SH AUTHOR
Andre Henrique (@mrhenrike)
.br
GitHub: https://github.com/mrhenrike
.br
LinkedIn: https://linkedin.com/in/mrhenrike
.br
X/Twitter: https://x.com/mrhenrike
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nmap (1),
.BR snmpwalk (1),
.BR snmpget (1),
.BR hydra (1)
.PP
Project home: https://github.com/mrhenrike/PrinterReaper
.br
Wiki: https://github.com/mrhenrike/PrinterReaper/wiki
.br
BlackHat 2017 paper: https://www.blackhat.com/docs/us-17/thursday/us-17-Mueller-Exploiting-Network-Printers.pdf
